# FAQ

## General aspects

### uCoin in 3 words?

Free Currency System.

### Free currency?

This is a new word, as no free currency existed before: free currency is one [respecting 4 economical freedoms](http://ucoin.io/theoretical/#a-free-economy), and leading to apply _Universal Dividend_ to its members.

### Universal Dividend?

This is a special case of [Basic Income](http://www.wikiwand.com/en/Basic_income): an amount every individual receives on a regular basis (monthly, annualy, ...) without other condition than being a unique living member of the Community. **This is not a redistribution system**. This is a _currency system_ where money is directly issued _by_ individuals and _to_ individuals.

### How to achieve this?

uCoin uses cryptography features provided by [Ed25519](http://www.wikiwand.com/en/EdDSA) scheme to both:

*   Identify unique & living individuals (a.k.a _members_ of the monetary community)
*   Allow money transfers through digital signatures

### Is uCoin like Bitcoin?

Well, uCoin is a _[cryptocurrency](http://www.wikiwand.com/en/Cryptocurrency)_ system and so is Bitcoin. Plus, both systems use [Proof of Work](http://ucoin.io/faq/#http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Proof-of-work_system) (PoW) technology to synchronize & secure its data. But uCoin takes advantage of [Web of Trust](http://www.wikiwand.com/en/Web_of_trust) mechanisms for both applying _Universal Dividend_ and considerably save energy power compared to Bitcoin.

### Still using Proof of Work?

Yes, PoW is still here. But in a largely lower order of magnitude. _Really_.

### What is a Web of Trust?

Web of Trust refers to a data structure allowing people to trust each others' identity. In uCoin, it is exactly the same.

### Is uCoin data encrypted?

No, all uCoin data is public & replicated. Anyone using uCoin may have a complete copy of the database including both community & transactions.

## uCoin for simple users

### Who can use uCoin?

Everybody: an individual, a collective (company, association, ...), there is no restriction here.

### Why becoming a member?

Members are a different kind of users: they have special rights such as creating money & write new data in uCoin system. Members are the pillar of uCoin data.

### Who can become a member?

_Only_ individuals, more precisely: **unique and living human beings**.

### How to subscribe?

Newcomers (individual not members yet) have to create their own key, attach an identity to it, and get certified by existing members. Once done, they can simply express their will to join the Web of Trust for the system to accept it.

### What is Web of Trust?

Web of Trust (WoT) is a special data structure composed of entities on one hand, and links between them on the other hand. In uCoin, these _entities_ are inviduals while _links_ are certification of an individual's identity by another one. When an individual gets enough links from existing WoT, he then becomes eligible for joining the WoT: when this happens, his identity is considered as _trustable_. If individual then express its will to join the WoT, he becomes a _member_.

### Which are rules of Web of Trust?

Joining the Web of Trust requires to fit 3 conditions:

*   an identity must gathers a minimum number of links
*   an identity cannot have twice a same link for a given period
*   an identity must be between [0, maxStep] distance from any other identity

Where:

*   step _0_ is the identity itself
*   step _n _is an identity directly known by step _n-1_

### How to receive Universal Dividend?

You have to be a member of the WoT when Universal Dividend (UD) is being written.
In fact, you are not receiving the UD, you are co-producing it with all the others members.

### What is the relative theory of money?

[The relative theory of money](en.trm..creationmonetaire.info) is a book published by Stephane Laborde which explains what 
is a free money, how the parameters are calculted and an history of money.
THis book is a theory which requires mathematical and economic knowledges.
[This introduction to the relative theory of money](http://cuckooland.free.fr/TheRtmForTheKids.html), 
maybe easier to understand, to start with.

### How is decided UD amount?

The amount is currency specific. But a general rule is defined in uCoin protocol:

$latex UD_{t+1} = \max{(UD_t ; c \frac{M_t}{N_{t+1}} )}$

The value of the parameters _c_, _UD(0) _and _dt_ are to be chosen by the implementation currency. For example, it could be:

> c = 0.0036815 UD(0) = 100 dt ~= 2 weeks

to lead to a 9.22% annual « c », but issued through 2 weeks chunks.

<div class="ui info message">Note: 9.22% annual « c » is a central symmetry between generations of 80 years life expectancy members. Those results may be found in the [RMT](http://wiki.creationmonetaire.info/images/f/f8/TRM_2_718_b.pdf).</div>

### How to know if I received UD?

If you were in WoT when UD was written (we should say co-produced), 
then you received it. It is just the protocol's rule.

### How to create money from UD?

If you received (we should say co-produced) UD, then you are allowed to create money for an amount _exactly equal_ to the UD. As a consequence: as long as you do not create it, the money resulting from UD won't exist in the monetary mass.

### How to transfer money?

You can transfer money by using _Transactions_. Transactions are just like cheques: you write who is the issuer, the recipient, and send it to the network. When it is validated, money has been transfered. However, transactions can do more than simple cheque: it may have any number of sources (minimum 1) and any number of recipients (minimum 1). Also, it exists 2 different transaction sources:

*   other transactions
*   Universal Dividend

### What about non-members?

Non-members cannot receive UD, nor benefit from transaction fees. However, they can use transactions to receive & send money to their accounts.

### How to know an individual is a member?

At any moment, the common data structure of uCoin (the _blockchain_) allows to know it: membership is simply written in it. Anyone may check it.

### How is it ensured no member can cheat by having multiple accounts?

This is all due to Web of Trust mechanisms. Without being magic, these mechanisms deeply depends on the rules of the WoT. In uCoin, WoT rules ensures that the more members the WoT is constituted, the harder it is for fake accounts to stay in. Thus, even if few fake accounts can exist at the beginning (which is already hard since the more little is WoT, the closer are members), these accounts will tend to be mechanically excluded. So, it cannot be guaranteed yet that fake identities won't exist. Maybe some mathematics could help us, we do not know yet (but you might help). What we are sure however, is that since only few fake accounts seems to be able to exist, this drawback does not stand in front of the benefits of free currency & free economy.

## uCoin for validators

### What is a validator?

A validator is a person (more precisely, a member) participating to the writing of the blockchain.

### Blockchain?

Yes, just like Bitcoin and other altcoins, uCoin stores its data in a blockchain. A blockchain is a succession of blocks which are stacked, together, sequentially. Each block contains information about members & transactions. A chain of blocks gives 2 major informations, for any _t _time:

*   The Web of Trust state, giving us the information of who is member and received UD
*   The Transactions state, telling who owns money and why (transaction history)

### Why to become a validator?

First because for the currency to work, validators are required: they are the people _validating_ the blockchain, by writing new blocks on top of it. Since blocks define members & transactions, validators are those making the currency dynamic by allowing us creating new money and transfering it to someone else, or even receive money from others. Without validators, there _can't_ be currency.

### Other motivations?

Well, no. Motivation is to have a free currency working, because we know we want a _free_ currency.

### Why not allowing non-member to write the blockchain?

Because then, we would loose the benefits from identification and would have to do old, energy wasting, centralizing power proof-of-work.

### Where is stored uCoin data?

We first have the blockchain, which holds WoT and transactions. This blockchain is replicated on each validator's computer, and even on a simple observer wanting to store it (for whatever purpose). Secondly, we have private keys of people. Private keys are what allows people to create an identity, certify other people and finally create money from Universal Dividend. For both members & non-members, private keys allows for transaction handling. In such case, private key is just a synonym for "wallet".

### Who may write blocks into the blockchain?

As said earlier, only members.

### But if members say who are the members, how do we have first members?

Very first members do not have to join the Web of Trust: they _are_ the WoT. Thereafter, newcomers may join in.

### How is decided which member may write next block?

It is not decided, any member may write the next block. It is a matter of both chance and difficulty. Indeed, each members have a difficulty level _directly depending_ on the previous blocks he succeeded to validate. Hence, a member that do not validate much blocks will increase its chances to validate next one.

### Does every member has to participate writing the blockchain?

No, everyone is free.

### How to succeed writing next block?

A member has to pass a trial consisting in building a block whose fingerprint starts with a certain number of zeros. If he succeeds, he may send this block over the network for other members & non-members to accept it.

### How is difficulty computed?

Precise rule is given in [the protocol](https://github.com/ucoin-io/ucoin/blob/master/doc/Protocol.md#proof-of-work). You should check it out, you will have a lot of technical informations about uCoin works!

### What if 2 blocks get validated simultaneously?

uCoin will be able to handle multiple blockchains at the same time. So, 2 blocks validated at the same time will create a _fork_. Depending on other nodes of the network, one or the other of the 2 blockchains will be abandoned in the future.

### Isn't there a risk a single member always succeed in proposing a valid block before others?

Yes, that's why when a member succeed to propose a block, his next blocks will require an harder work to be accepted. If he does not succeed for a while, the next blocks will be easier. And so on. Until a common floor.

### How to know a member received the UD?

If he was a member at that moment, he _did_ receive it. This is just an accepted rule.

## Server software

### Which OS are supported?

At the moment, only GNU/Linux and MacOS X are supported, however the software should also work on Windows (but harder to install because of external dependencies). For now, Ubuntu 12.04 to 14.04 have been tested. But any recent GNU/Linux distribution should be able to do the job.

### Which softwares are required?

uCoin relies on some external softwares, listed here:

*   MongoDB
*   Node.js + NPM

### How to install uCoin?

Follow [Install](https://github.com/ucoin-io/ucoin/wiki/Install-uCoin-node) guide.

### Do you plan to have a [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) installation?

Yes we do.

## Getting involved

### How may I help?

You can help on project developement in many ways, depending your available time, energy and your profile. Please read below requirements and possibilities. If you feel comfortable with one these profiles, do not hesitate to [contact us at admin@ucoin.io](mailto:admin@ucoin.io).

#### As a backend developer

You may participate to uCoin server's development, which is the core software implementing UCP. You will need some technical skills:

*   Node.js development, lot of asynchronous JavaScript
*   MongoDB database, trough Mongoose module

If you are not affraid by those technologies, you can both start reading [HTTP API](https://github.com/ucoin-io/ucoin/blob/master/doc/HTTP_API.md) and [contact us](mailto:admin@ucoin.io).

#### As a designer/frontend developer

See this beautiful website? You want to improve it with new content, new design? Feel free to propose your skills, any help is welcome. What probably uCoin needs the most is: **a logo**!

#### As a mathematician

uCoin protocol will use Graph Theory properties to build a Web of Trust of unique & living individuals. Even if uCoin team is made up of engineers/PhDs, Graph Theory is not something easy and we probably need experts in that domain. So, if Graph Theory is your every day life, **do not hesitate to come to us!**

#### As a preacher

Well, here, you do not need us to do the job: speak about uCoin, make articles, share links, knowledge, experiences, whatever! No need to ask, simply do it!

### What to learn first?

Well, if reached this paragraph reading the whole FAQ, you should have a rather good idea of what is uCoin. You could go deeper with [Theoretical section](http://ucoin.io/theoretical). From there, you should be able to talk about the project with a minimum of background. If you want to get deeper in uCoin, read [UCP](http://ucoin.io/specs), this is uCoin protocol. All what you need to know about technical IT stuff is there, even if not in a tutorial format. Last, you could try to read [RMT](http://www.wikiwand.com/fr/Th%C3%A9orie_relative_de_la_monnaie), which is the fundamental theory behind uCoin's way of creating new money.

### The best way to stay tuned?

[Mailing List](https://groups.google.com/forum/?hl=fr#!forum/ucoin) for major events, [uCoin Forum](http://forum.ucoin.io/) for every day talking about development, events, questions & almost every subject. Last, you could join the chatroom with the bottom-right _Chat_ icon visible on each page of this website.
